### SAMSARA
Simulate spatially explicit community data with multiple drivers of community assembly


Homework4 - Project documentation:

Motivation:
This project is a project I have been working on for the last two years. We are currently finishing up the manuscript and I will not be revisiting the analysis. I think this is a great project to integrate into a snakemake workflow, because of the many interdependent steps in data simulation and analysis. The main issue is that if I were to implement my entire (so far manual) workflow, this would take way too much time. Choosing another project might be easier. But I would actually like to, one day make this simulation and analysis pipeline available and easy to use. To make your and my life easier I will therefore only integrate the data simulation and a single example for the analysis. I will write the code so the simulation can be run on the cluster. I am not a bioinformatician so I do not work with massive datasets where many files require the same downstream manipulation.

Project description:
The goal of this project was to evaluate the inference potential species 'co-occurrences' (essentially strong correlations) hold. We simulate population dynamics using generalised Lotka-Volterra differential equations (gLVs) in spatially explicit habitats. Species have pairwise interaction coefficients (suppressing or enhancing each others growth) and specific resource preferences. Depending on how well their preferences match the provided resources in a habitat, which are informed by there position in 'resource landscapes' they can reach higher or lower abundances. So both the resulting carrying capacitiy from matching preferences for and abundance of resources as well as their interactions dictate a species final abundance. The analysis simply foucsses on reconstructing our known inputs/drivers. So do Sp.1 and Sp.2 co-occurr because they have a mutualistic interaction coefficient, or is it because they share a similar resource preference? We also have additional confounding dynamics such as dispersal, implemented as simple diffusion dynamic between connected nodes in our habitat network. In this workflow I will only be simulating our baseline scenario recreating Fig.2a).

My previous workflow:
I have been working without git. I have simulated data and done preliminary analysis on the cluster. For the latter the only 'resource heavy' step is determining the significant co-occurrences by null model testing correlations. I also included a bunch of matching driver inputs with calculated co-occurrences, calculating diversity indices etc. into the same analysis script. In retrospect, these should be separate scripts, which could be perfectly combined with a workflow manager. Then I have an additional set of analyses and plotting functions that use I have only used on my work desktop (on our share server) when doing exploratory analyses. This second part of the analysis is very disconnected, so would benefit from being brought together in a workflow.

Issues with translating my workflow to snakemake:
It will be a little rough for you to understand my code and the huge amount of parameters that are implemented in this analysis.